# Migrating to v10

## Remove `setAccessToken(null)`

Calling `setAccessToken(null)` is obsolete now. Vendor specific access tokens should be set via style or tile URLs,
consult the corresponding provider docs if necessary.

```diff
- setAccessToken(null)
```

## Changes to `Camera` Component

### Default `animationMode` is now `CameraMode.None`

The default `animationMode` for a controlled `Camera` is now `CameraMode.None`. To reinstate previous behavior, change
the following:

```diff
<Camera
  centerCoordinates={[0, 0]}
+  animationDuration={2000}
+  animationMode="easeTo"
/>
```

### Removed `allowUpdates` and `triggerKey` Props

If you need this functionality, keep your props stable or use the imperative `setCamera`.

```diff
<Camera
  centerCoordinates={[0, 0]}
-  allowUpdates={false}
-  triggerKey={someKey}
/>
```

## `MapView` props `styleURL` and `styleJSON` unified to `mapStyle`

The props `styleURL` and `styleJSON`, which control the style of the `MapView`, have been unified into a single
`mapStyle` prop.

### `styleURL`

```diff
<MapView
-  styleURL="https://some-style-url"
+  mapStyle="https://some-style-url"
/>
```

### `styleJSON`

A style object is now expected as an object, without `JSON.stringify`.

```diff
<MapView
-  styleJSON={JSON.stringify(someStyleObject)}
+  mapStyle={someStyleObject}
/>
```

## Removed `Style` component

The `Style` component was redundant, as it's possible to pass a style object to the `MapView` directly.

```diff
- <MapView>
-  <Style json={someStyleObject} />
- </MapView>
+ <MapView mapStyle={someStyleObject} />
```

## Replaced `OfflineProgressStatus` with `OfflinePackStatus`

The two types have been unified. Simply replace `OfflineProgressStatus` with `OfflinePackStatus`.

## Removed deprecated Methods, Props and Types

- `UserTrackingModes` was removed, use `UserTrackingMode` instead
- Removed `setCamera` from `MapView`, use imperative methods of `Camera` instead
- Removed `byId` methods from ShapeSource
- Removed `children` from SymbolSource
- Removed `assets` key from `Images`
- Removed deprecated event keys

## Deprecations

These breaking changes will occur in the next major release.

### Default Export

The default export is deprecated. Choose between named imports or namespace imports instead. Adopt these to ease the
transition to the future major release.

#### Named Imports

```diff
- import MapLibreGL from "@maplibre/maplibre-react-native";
+ import { MapView } from "@maplibre/maplibre-react-native";

- <MapLibreGL.MapView />
+ <MapView />
```

#### Namespace Import

```diff
- import MapLibreGL from "@maplibre/maplibre-react-native";
+ import * as MapLibreRN from "@maplibre/maplibre-react-native";

- <MapLibreGL.MapView />
+ <MapLibreRN.MapView />
```

Any namespace can be chosen, but using `MapLibreGL` is not recommended anymore due to risk of confusion.

### Module Exports

The camelCase module exports are deprecated, use PascalCase instead.

```diff
- import { locationManager, offlineManager, snapshotManager } from "@maplibre/maplibre-react-native";
+ import { LocationManager, OfflineManager, SnapshotManager } from "@maplibre/maplibre-react-native";
```
